For the lighting in our scene I would like to use volumetric lighting and what that means is that we'll
be able to see the cones of light in the scene as they're shining through.
So I've got this light up here shining down to the ceiling.
If I go over to the rendered viewport shading and let that render for a minute we can see that we've
got the light coming down through the ceiling.
We can see the light down here on the floor and we've got a bit of bounce light happening in the room
too but we can't see that cone of light and I'd really like to have that here in the scene so to do
that we need to turn on volumetric lighting.
I'm going to come over here to the world panel and under here I want to go to surface now yours may
say use nodes and if it does go ahead and click on that.
Now if you click on used nodes you'll get a surface of background here.
I'll go ahead and choose that.
Now when I do it it brings in a white color.
Yours may be kind of middle gray and that's fine.
In fact I think I'm going to bring mine down to kind of a middle gray as well.
And then down here in the volume section you need to click on this and select volume scatter and that
will give us our volumetric lighting and you may be asking.
It doesn't look very good.
Well no it doesn't.
We need to take the density down quite a bit.
So instead of 1.0 Let's take it down to point 0 1 and let's see how that looks a little bit better.
Let's also take the ambient occlusion factor to point 0 2.
Let's try that and you may be able to hear the fan in my computer.
Click on now that it's trying to render out the scene.
So now I'm just beginning to see the faintest outline of a light cone here that's the volume of light
that we're trying to go for.
So now it's a matter of adjusting your settings to the way you want it so you can maybe adjust the color
of the background up a bit.
You could take the density of this from point 0 1 maybe to point to.
You could then bring up the ambient occlusion from point 0 to two.
I don't know.
Point five something like that.
And it's kind of a balancing act.
In addition you could go in and increase the intensity of the light itself.
So there's a lot of ways you can do this but ultimately we want some balance of these settings.
That gives us that volume of light coming down through the ceiling.
I'll go ahead and try and increase the strength of the light here I'm going to go ahead and turn this
up just a bit.
See what happens.
So as I said it's a balancing act.
Use these various settings to come up with the effect that you're looking for.